README.md, before:

# kenshō chart

Calculates [indicators][1] for [technical chart analysis][2] in [PHP][3].

## General

- [PHP 8.3][4]
- Minimal dependencies. 
- Uses [brick/math][5] for arbitrary precision numbers.
- Avoids redundant calculations and keeps the overall complexity low.
- Unit- and integration tested against [other libraries][6] and [real-world data][7].

### Audience

The library assumes a basic understanding of [technical analysis][2] and how to use these [indicators][1].

## Installation

```shell
composer require kenshodigital/chart ^3.0
```

## Usage

- [Prepare chart][8]
- [Calculate indicators][9]
- [Calculate trend indicators][10]

### Prepare chart

```php
<?php declare(strict_types=1);

use Kensho\Chart\Chart\ChartFactory;

$chart = ChartFactory::bootstrap([
    '2023-01-25' => [
        'open'   => '140.8900',
        'high'   => '142.4300',
        'low'    => '138.8100',
        'close'  => '141.8600',
        'volume' => '65799349',
    ],
    '2023-01-26' => [
        'open'   => '143.1700',
        'high'   => '144.2500',
        'low'    => '141.9000',
        'close'  => '143.9600',
        'volume' => '54105068',
    ],
    // ...
]);
```

### Calculate indicators

- [SMA][11]
- [EMA][12]
- [+DI & -DI][13]
- [ADX][14]

#### SMA (Simple Moving Average)

```php
$period = 7;
$result = $chart->getSMA($period);

// '2023-01-25' => null,
// '2023-01-26' => null,
// ...
// '2023-02-02' => '145.0414',
// '2023-02-03' => '146.8471',
// ...
```

#### EMA (Exponential Moving Average)

```php
$period = 7;
$result = $chart->getEMA($period);

// '2023-01-25' => null,
// '2023-01-26' => null,
// ...
// '2023-02-02' => '145.6779',
// '2023-02-03' => '147.8834',
// ...
```

#### +DI & -DI (Positive- & Negative Directional Indicator)

```php
$period = 7;
$result = $chart->getDI($period);

// '2023-01-25' => [
//     'DIp' => null,
//     'DIm' => null,
// ],
// '2023-01-26' => [
//     'DIp' => null,
//     'DIm' => null, 
// ],
// ...
// '2023-02-02' => [
//     'DIp' => '44.1913',
//     'DIm' =>  '3.0372',
// ],
// '2023-02-03' => [
//     'DIp' => '50.3535',
//     'DIm' =>  '2.1344',
// ],
// ...
```

#### ADX (Average Directional Index)

```php
$period = 7;
$result = $chart->getADX($period);

// '2023-01-25' => null,
// '2023-01-26' => null,
// ...
// '2023-02-10' => '85.4433',
// '2023-02-13' => '83.2376',
// ...
```

### Calculate trend indicators

Calculate all trend indicators (SMA, EMA, +DI, -DI and ADX) in a single run.

```php
$SMAPeriod = 20
$EMAPeriod = 10;
$result    = $chart->getTrend($SMAPeriod, $EMAPeriod);

// '2023-01-25' => [
//     'close' => '141.8600',
//     'SMA'   => null,
//     'EMA'   => null,
//     'DIp'   => null,
//     'DIm'   => null,
//     'ADX'   => null,
// ],
// ...
// '2023-02-07' => [
//     'close' => '154.6500',
//     'SMA'   => null,
//     'EMA'   => '148.8578',
//     'DIp'   =>  '45.1810',
//     'DIm'   =>   '1.8100',
//     'ADX'   => null,
// ],
// ...
// '2023-02-22' => [
//     'close' => '148.9100',
//     'SMA'   => '149.8000',
//     'EMA'   => '151.0938',
//     'DIp'   =>  '28.7024',
//     'DIm'   =>  '18.6931',
//     'ADX'   =>  '67.8187',
// ],
// ...
```

### FAQ

#### Why are numeric values represented as strings?

> Note about floating-point values: instantiating from a float might be unsafe, as floating-point values are imprecise by design, and could result in a loss of information. Always prefer instantiating from a string, which supports an unlimited number of digits.
>
> — [brick/math][5]

 [1]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Technical_indicator
 [2]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Technical_analysis
 [3]: https://www.php.net
 [4]: https://www.php.net/releases/8.3/en.php
 [5]: https://github.com/brick/math
 [6]: https://github.com/bennycode/trading-signals
 [7]: https://www.alphavantage.co
 [8]: #prepare-chart
 [9]: #calculate-indicators
[10]: #calculate-trend-indicators
[11]: #sma-simple-moving-average
[12]: #ema-exponential-moving-average
[13]: #di---di-positive---negative-directional-indicator
[14]: #adx-average-directional-index

Commit message:

Removes `brick/math`, uses `BCMath` directly

README.md, after:

# kenshō chart

Calculates [indicators][1] for [technical chart analysis][2] in [PHP][3].

## General

- [PHP 8.3][4]
- Minimal dependencies. 
- Uses [BCMath][5] for arbitrary precision calculations.
- Avoids redundant calculations and keeps the overall complexity low.
- Unit- and integration tested against [other libraries][6] and [real-world data][7].

### Audience

The library assumes a basic understanding of [technical analysis][2] and how to use these [indicators][1].

## Installation

```shell
composer require kenshodigital/chart ^3.0
```

## Usage

- [Prepare chart][8]
- [Calculate indicators][9]
- [Calculate trend indicators][10]

### Prepare chart

```php
<?php declare(strict_types=1);

use Kensho\Chart\Chart\ChartFactory;

$chart = ChartFactory::bootstrap([
    '2023-01-25' => [
        'open'   => '140.8900',
        'high'   => '142.4300',
        'low'    => '138.8100',
        'close'  => '141.8600',
        'volume' => '65799349',
    ],
    '2023-01-26' => [
        'open'   => '143.1700',
        'high'   => '144.2500',
        'low'    => '141.9000',
        'close'  => '143.9600',
        'volume' => '54105068',
    ],
    // ...
]);
```

### Calculate indicators

- [SMA][11]
- [EMA][12]
- [+DI & -DI][13]
- [ADX][14]

#### SMA (Simple Moving Average)

```php
$period = 7;
$result = $chart->getSMA($period);

// '2023-01-25' => null,
// '2023-01-26' => null,
// ...
// '2023-02-02' => '145.0414',
// '2023-02-03' => '146.8471',
// ...
```

#### EMA (Exponential Moving Average)

```php
$period = 7;
$result = $chart->getEMA($period);

// '2023-01-25' => null,
// '2023-01-26' => null,
// ...
// '2023-02-02' => '145.6779',
// '2023-02-03' => '147.8834',
// ...
```

#### +DI & -DI (Positive- & Negative Directional Indicator)

```php
$period = 7;
$result = $chart->getDI($period);

// '2023-01-25' => [
//     'DIp' => null,
//     'DIm' => null,
// ],
// '2023-01-26' => [
//     'DIp' => null,
//     'DIm' => null, 
// ],
// ...
// '2023-02-02' => [
//     'DIp' => '44.1913',
//     'DIm' =>  '3.0372',
// ],
// '2023-02-03' => [
//     'DIp' => '50.3535',
//     'DIm' =>  '2.1344',
// ],
// ...
```

#### ADX (Average Directional Index)

```php
$period = 7;
$result = $chart->getADX($period);

// '2023-01-25' => null,
// '2023-01-26' => null,
// ...
// '2023-02-10' => '85.4433',
// '2023-02-13' => '83.2376',
// ...
```

### Calculate trend indicators

Calculate all trend indicators (SMA, EMA, +DI, -DI and ADX) in a single run.

```php
$SMAPeriod = 20
$EMAPeriod = 10;
$result    = $chart->getTrend($SMAPeriod, $EMAPeriod);

// '2023-01-25' => [
//     'close' => '141.8600',
//     'SMA'   => null,
//     'EMA'   => null,
//     'DIp'   => null,
//     'DIm'   => null,
//     'ADX'   => null,
// ],
// ...
// '2023-02-07' => [
//     'close' => '154.6500',
//     'SMA'   => null,
//     'EMA'   => '148.8578',
//     'DIp'   =>  '45.1810',
//     'DIm'   =>   '1.8100',
//     'ADX'   => null,
// ],
// ...
// '2023-02-22' => [
//     'close' => '148.9100',
//     'SMA'   => '149.8000',
//     'EMA'   => '151.0938',
//     'DIp'   =>  '28.7024',
//     'DIm'   =>  '18.6931',
//     'ADX'   =>  '67.8187',
// ],
// ...
```

### FAQ

#### Why are numeric values represented as strings?

> Floating point numbers have limited precision. [...] So never trust floating number results to the last digit, and do not compare floating point numbers directly for equality. If higher precision is necessary, the arbitrary precision math functions are available.
>
> — [php.net][15]

 [1]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Technical_indicator
 [2]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Technical_analysis
 [3]: https://www.php.net
 [4]: https://www.php.net/releases/8.3/en.php
 [5]: https://www.php.net/manual/en/book.bc.php
 [6]: https://github.com/bennycode/trading-signals
 [7]: https://www.alphavantage.co
 [8]: #prepare-chart
 [9]: #calculate-indicators
[10]: #calculate-trend-indicators
[11]: #sma-simple-moving-average
[12]: #ema-exponential-moving-average
[13]: #di---di-positive---negative-directional-indicator
[14]: #adx-average-directional-index
[15]: https://www.php.net/manual/en/language.types.float.php
